Final ST 558 Blogpost
================
Dave Bergeron
11/28/2021

First, let me say this class has been a great experience! There were so
many questions I had related to things we hear about in the world today;
Data Science, AI, Machine Learning. This class not only provided the
skills to pursue work as a data science, but also a better understanding
of some of the methodologies that are being used to drive the world
forward. I also want to say, I really like how this class was
structured. The progression in the learning material showed how it all
comes together from generating a basic R markdown document to being able
to load an app you develop into AWS. Not only that, I was able to
understand R better and learn its capabilities and limitations.

## What (if anything) has changed about what you think a data scientist is and what they do?

For the most part I feel pretty aligned with what I mentioned in my
initial blog post. Data science is apart of my current work environment
so the concept is somewhat familiar. The added knowledge gain from fully
immersing in the work of a data scientist from this course has
demonstrated the tools and capabilities that are available and how they
can be used. I also really appreciated one of the final lectures showing
the intersection between data scientists and executives. That was very
helpful in making the connection between keeping your head down doing
data science work and where that work becomes important in the the
reality of making business decisions.

## What your current thoughts are in terms of using R for data science - do you think you’ll continue to use R going forward? Why or why not?

I would love to continue using R in data science work. It is a good tool
that has a lot of really great capabilities. The online resources and
support on the internet are also beneficial given the size of the R
community that is out there.

## What things are you going to do differently in practice now that you’ve had this course?

There are so many things I would like to apply from this course in my
current work. Using Markdown files and generating reports, storing code
in a Github repo and immediate benefits the team could leverage to
better organize out work. There is a lot of work done with SQL, and it
seems like R could really help in capturing that code and helping us
better explain and demonstrate what our code is doing.
