Blogpost 3
================
Dave Bergeron
10/5/2021

# Blogpost 3 - Project 1

This project a lot of fun!

1.  Explain what you did in the project and any interesting findings

I ended up querying the NASA Near earth object API and learned quite a
bit about what type of information NASA collects and how they analyse
celestial objects that move close to Earth. Some of the data made the
hair on the back of my next stand up a bit, but overall, it was really
interesting working with the data. There were two interesting findings.
One was dealing with messy data and data wrangling to get it into a nice
usable format. The API returned individual data frames for each day
queried, so that took some work to get everything compiled into a
tibble. The other thing was the data itself, which showed me the larger
a celestial object, the brighter it is. I suppose I knew that already
looking at the stars at night, but it was cool to see the data backing
that assumption up!

2.  Reflecting on the process you went through for this project.

The most difficult part of this project was figuring out how to get all
the data into a usable tibble. The API returned one data frame per day
queried, so that took some research to get it to all compile, but once I
was able to make it work, it was a huge learning opportunity. I also
can’t tell you how many times I was stuck on certain things, and the
feeling you have once you figure them out is so empowering, it makes you
want to continue to dive deeper into what you are working on. There were
moments where I wished I could have continued on this project for the
rest of the class!

Another thing that was challenging was finding a good API to work with.
I had some trial and error before I landed on the NASA NEO API.
Initially I was hoping to work with the MARS weather data, but that was
a little tricky. All that being said, I should have set up a little more
time to do some reconnaissance to find a usable API to work with. At the
end of the day, I am happy with the data I worked with.

Another thing while I’m thinking about it, I really had no idea what the
data would be like when I started the project. I guess it just took an
open mind going in, and once I started to immerse myself deeper into it,
I just wanted to keep going. It became really fascinating and I just
kept coming up with more ideas on ways to transform it and look for
other data to add to it.

Github repo: <https://github.com/dberger2/project1.github.io.git>

Project URL: <https://dberger2.github.io/project1.github.io/>
