
Project 2

Dave Bergeron 10/31/2021

This project a was lot of fun and required my partner and I to
coordinate our work through Github. The project was the development of
two linear and two ensemble models related to determine which one would
be the best at predicting online news popularity across six different
channels using data from the UCI machine learning repository. In
addition to developing the models, we also conducted exploratory data
analysis to assist in better understanding the data we were working
with. At the end of the project, it was determined that one of the
linear models was the best predictor of the response variable that was
being evaluated.

1.  What would you do differently?

I think overall everything went very smoothly, we never experienced an
issue pushing or pulling our changes to and from github. Researching the
data and predictor variables would have been something I would have
devoted more time too given it was challenging to truly understand what
some of the predictor variables were capturing. Additionally, with a
little more understanding of the data set, I would have considered
creating some new variables to include in the analysis.

2.  What was the most difficult part for you?

The automation piece was a little challenging to figure out and trying
to understand what some of the variables captured made determining what
graphs to use a little challenging as well. That being said, it did
leave room to be creative and just try things out with some of the
different predictor variables and see what relationships emerged
visually.

3.  What are your big take-aways from this project?

This project really showed me how working collaboratively through github
can make work very efficient. My partner and I got into a good rhythm
and had good communication with each other which really made the
workflow smooth. We never experienced any push or pull issues.
Additionally, the automation piece showed that you can apply your code
to multiple different data sets, which is extremely useful for future
projects.

Github repo:
<https://github.com/xaviergenelin/Data-Channel-Prediction.git>

Project URL: <https://xaviergenelin.github.io/Data-Channel-Prediction/>
